+++
title = "CEC1988"
draft = false
tags = ["User"]
categories = []
startDate = "2024-09-24"
endDate = ""
contributors = ["CEC1988"]
citations = []
+++
Hiya, I'm CEC1988, I enjoy many things, CEC Being one of them, That was my first interest, I have a passion for CEC since 2013, The first location I visited Was {{< wiki-link "Garden Grove, CA (13101 Harbor Blvd)" >}} way back in April 2013(I missed the CECP Logo in 2011 :( lol can't blame myself ) I'm 14 Irl, My Most Visited Location is {{< wiki-link "Chino, CA (5250 Philadelphia St)" >}} Which I've visited since 2014 when I moved, Hence why I have 1988 in my Profile name. Chino is really underrated, it housed the first {{< wiki-link "Chuck E's House" >}} in California, and was A ShowBiz Pizza! I always wanted to see a 3-Stage (for some reason I thought {{< wiki-link "Diamond Bar, CA (1900 S Brea Canyon Rd)" >}} Housed one lol). I want to own a Cyberamic Chuck. E. one day, Maybe when a location remodels, I know Cyberstar Chuck Reserved {{< wiki-link "La Mesa, CA (5500 Grossmont Center Dr)" >}} So that only leaves me Huntington Beach! Hope i'm not late to the game!
Some things about me:

1.  My favorite Type of Animatronic are Cyberamics
2.  Favorite Stage is the {{< wiki-link "Chuck E's House" >}}
3.  Favorite Remodel is the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}}
4.  Favorite CEC Logo is the 'Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza' - Letters / Logo (SPT Exterior Signage)|Chuck. E. Cheese's Pizza 89' Logo
5.  Favorite Chuck. E. Voice Actor is Scott Wilson
6.  Favorite Helen Voice Actress is Karisa McKinney
7.  Favorite Munch VA is Scott Wilson
8.  Favorite Jasper VA is Bob West
9.  Favorite Pasqually VA is Bob West/Earl Fisher
10. Least Favorite Remodel is the {{< wiki-link "CEC 2.0 Remodel Program" >}}
11. Favorite Locations are Chino, Huntington Beach, La Mesa, and Northridge, CA

I edit with what I can, I know Chino a lot because I have friends which have pictures of Chino when they were Young, That's why i could confirm that they had the Chuck E Cheese Pizza Logo like La Mesa's until 1996, Bu- Hmm I should change something..
So recently I got the Wink From {{< wiki-link "Diamond Bar, CA (1900 S Brea Canyon Rd)" >}}, Someone was selling a Wink For Dirt Cheap at a garage Sale, they said they didn't want it anymore and that they got it near a CEC in Diamond Bar, so I bought it! I wont be posting pictures of the Wink Right now. I need to restore him! :)
Have a Chuck. E. Day!!!
