***Dr. Quack***[1] was a Cyberamic Cabaret Animatronic that debuted at the [Simi Valley, CA (71 Tierra Rejada Rd)] [Pizza Time Theatre] after it's opening on October 20th, 1980. The bot was one of the first 3 Test 'Lounge' characters, alongside [The Beagles / Beach Bowzers (Lounge)] and [The King / King Kat (Lounge)].
The Bot was only used at Simi Valley, and was removed at an Unknown time and sent to the [Sunnyvale, CA (1213 Innsbruck Drive)] Costume Department.

## History

Disco Duck[2], later renamed to Dr. Quack by November 1980, was developed in 1980 by most likely [Fantasy Forest] as a Cabaret/Lounge test character for use in a future Pizza Time Theatre. The bot, alongside The King prototype developed by Harold Goldbrandsen, were both possible options for Simi Valley's lounge cabaret character, designed for a general audience unlike piano bar cabaret characters[2]. The Bot was chosen sometime after October 22nd, and installed a few weeks after the October 22nd Article. The Bot was the first Lounge Cabaret character ever installed, tied with The Beagles as neither have a confirmed installation date. While not confirmed, The Bot was most likely based off of Mike 'Dr Dux' Hatcher, who was the programmer of showtapes for PTT, and shares similarities to the character including Hair and headphones, alongside the name itself. The Bot was programmed to the [Dr. Quack Showtape], a Selection of Children's Songs and Nursery Rhymes, possibly sung or narrated by Dr. Quack[1], with the showtape itself being lost.
The Bot was removed sometime after 1980, most likely replaced with The King, who is known to have appeared at the location[3]. The Bot was sent to the Sunnyvale Offices, and most likely was thrown out after the Move out to the Showbiz Corporate Offices in [Irving, TX (4441 W Airport Fwy Ste 215)] alongside several other bots. The fate of the bot is unknown.

## Design

The Bot has White fake feathering, similar to Helen bots, a Blue and White stripped shirt, and general Sailor Attire. The Bot also features Headphones, an Orange beak with a fake red tongue, and light blue eyes.
One image of the bot shows it with a Brown/Orange wig, and an ascot, but another image had both removed and has a Dark Brown curly wig.