***Sterling Heights, MI (13745 Lakeside Circle) #103*** originally opened up on February 2, 2000, as a Chuck E. Cheese's {{< cite 1 >}} and is still open today as a Chuck E. Cheese.

## History
### 2000's
The Sterling Heights, MI, Chuck E. Cheese's opened on February 2, 2000. It was one of 10 locations CEC Entertainment acquired from Discovery Zone to become a Chuck E. Cheese resturant'{{< cite 2 >}}. The store featured an {{< wiki-link "Studio C Alpha" >}}, New Games, Decor from the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}}, and the newest features from {{< wiki-link "Phase 3 (2000)" >}}. Between 2002 and 2008, the Chuck E. Cheese animatronic would obtain the Cool Chuck shirt and shorts. {{< cite 3 >}} Between 2008 and 2012, the Chuck E. Cheese animatronic would obtain the Avenger shirt, shorts, and hat{{< cite 4 >}}.

### 2010's
In late 2012 Sterling Heights would undergo the {{wiki-link "CEC 2000's Remodel Program" >}} during the remodel the {{< wiki-link "Interactive Console" >}} was removed being replaced with the "CEC" panel, and the Blue Screen camera was removed and replaced with the {{< wiki-link "Ticket Blaster" >}}.{{< cite 5 >}}In 2016 the store recieved {{< wiki-link "Chuck E.'s Play Pass" >}}.{{< cite 12 >}}In 2017 the Blue Screen would be removed {{< cite 7 >}}, the SkyTubes would also be removed that year {{< cite 8 >}}. In 2018, the Chuck E. Cheese animatronic would receive the Rockstar Shirt. Between late 2017 and early 2018, the curtains on the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Alpha" >}} would be disabled. {{< cite 6 >}}  

### 2020's
March 2020 would mark the store's temporary closing due to COVID-19. On October 9, 2020, the store would re-open for "Games & Dine-In".{{< cite 9 >}} On August 13, 2023, Sterling Heights would begin its {{< wiki-link "CEC 2.0 Remodel Program" >}} after minor construction delays regarding the POD Trailers.{{< cite 10 >}} The stage would be removed that night alongside the artwork. The store would gain the 2019 model {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Live Stage (Dance Floor)" >}}, with the {{< wiki-link "Video Wall" >}} being installed on the back wall, with the former stage being replaced with booths. On October 5, 2023, the store would celebrate its Grand Re-Opening with Helen{{< cite 11 >}}. In 2024, the store would receive the Chuck E. Cheese Trampoline Zone and Trampoline Zone artwork of Bella B., Chuck E. Cheese, and Mr. Munch{{< cite 13 >}}. 
