***Sharonville, OH (1429 E Kemper Rd) #738*** originally opened up on October 21, 1981, as a ShowBiz Pizza Place [1] and then closed its doors on January 8, 1984. [2] The store would then re-open on September 8, 1992, as a Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza, still open to this day now as a Chuck E. Cheese.[3]
﻿
## History
﻿
On June 18, 1981 'The Sharonville City Council gave final approval Thursday to an ordinance that will Showbiz Pizza to apply for $1.35 million in Ohio industrial revenue bonds for land, equipment and construction of a 10,000 squre-foot building at 1330 E. Kemper Road". [31] Construction would soon begin on the property with the ShowBiz Pizza Place opening up on October 21, 1981, as the 1st ShowBiz Pizza in Ohio. The store featured The Rock-afire Explosion [Classic Stage], New Games, Oven-Fresh Pizza, Sandwiches, Salad Bar, and more. In 1982, to support the Bengals getting into Super Bowl XVI, ShowBiz Pizza ran a promotion at Sharonville, OH, and [Cincinnati, OH (8801 Colerain Ave)]. The event would happen January 24th, in which you'd watch the event on a 'Wide Screen TV' and also bring in cans of soup in return for "Four Free Game Tokens and the soup goes to charity". [4] In 1983 as part of [The Amazing Uncle Klunk Traveling Show (Event)] they would receive Uncle Klunk.[5] They would also retain Klunk, retrofitting him into Santa as part of [Santa On Stage Show 1983 (Event)][6]. On January 8, 1984, the ShowBiz Pizza Place would close as "part of a series of 40 closings and sales designed to trim operations in 'over-saturated' markets". [2] The Rock-afire Explosion would be sent back to Creative Engineering, Inc. to be re-used for the [Miami, FL (19191-A S Dixie Hwy)] [7]
﻿
### Post-Closure
In 1985, a nightclub named Sneaker's (also known as Sneaker's Nite Club) opened up inside the former ShowBiz Pizza Place. [8] In 1987, 'Sneakers of Cincinnati' would close due to failing to pay rent. An auction would be held on December 29, 1987, at 10:00 am. The items sold were 'Doors, rug, telephones, broken chairs, store bus, records, mike stand, sander, jars, heavy duty Sawz-all, 3 backgammon boards & dice, 2 malt makers, 18 unit locker, 4 chairs, volleyball, display cases, trivia pursuit game, 2 large rolls of drapery fabric'.[9]
﻿
The property would sit vacant until January 1991 when the property would be put up for sale being advertised as **'**TRI-COUNTY 1429 E. Kemper, formerly Sneakers Nite Club, 10,000+ S.F. on 1.66 acres, F.F. & E. included Excellent retail opportunity in heart of Tri-County'.[10] later that year in August 1991 'ShowBiz Pizza Time, Inc' would purchase the property for $675,000[11]
﻿
### 1990's
On September 8, 1992, the Sharonville, OH, Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza would open. The store was one of the first to receive [SPT 1990's Remodel Program]. The store also featured the [2-Stage]. It would retain the layout of the ShowBiz Pizza Place, with minor changes done by Sneakers of Cincinnati, such as installing a walkway into the kitchen on the left of what was originally the Salad Bar. This would mean the Food Tray would be installed in the kitchen instead of out front for guest access.  [12]. On November 23rd, 1993 (10 am-7 pm), an 'Informational Open House' was held by 'Chuck E. Cheese's/ShowBiz' to tell restaurant management the facts about their growth in 1993 and their 'livable' schedules.  [13] In 1996, they would receive [Phase 1 (1994)]. The store would also receive new artwork, such as magazines and sports fixtures. During this revamp, the 'Kiddie Ride' area would have the [Munch (1991 Portrait)], [Jasper (1991 Portrait)]. {{< wiki-link"Helen (1991 Portrait)" >}}, [Chuck E. Cheese (1991 Portrait)]. & Ball Bath Sign removed for new artwork/sports fixtures such as Munch Empire State Building (SPT Décor), Toddler Town Sign (SPT Signage), Red Crayon, Blue Crayon, Ruler, Star (6') x2, [Rolling Stone (Magazine)], [GQ Chuck E. Charming (Magazine)], [Soccer (Magazine)], [Hollywood (1991 Postcard)], & [Wild West (1991 Postcard)].  [14][15] Between 1997 and 1999, they would then receive [Phase 2 (1997)]. 

### 2000's
Lastly, between 2000 - 2003, they would receive [Phase 3 (2000)] with the Toddler Zone installed next to the kitchen in the former 'Toddler Town' section. Between 2002-2005, The Tuxedo would be removed for his 'Cool Chuck' attire.[16] In Fall 2005, Sharonville would receive the [CEC 2000's Remodel Program], being one of the first in the country to receive the remodel. Due to that, the store would keep its dim lighting[17]. Between 2006 - 2009, the stage would receive more changes, such as replacing Helen's dress, removing the old patch design, and Pasqually's eyelids being repainted from brown to peach.[18][19].
﻿
### 2010's
Between 2010-2013, Sharonville would receive a minor update to the store, replacing all the dim lighting with fluorescent lighting. Addition of several pieces of artwork, such as two pieces from the [CEC Warhol - Quad (CEC Décor)] set, 'Celebration' (CEC Décor) and 'Family' (CEC Décor).  Between 2013-2014, Helen would receive a new mask.[20][21]. In April 2016, the Skytubes were removed, allowing for an increase in games, the signage for the Toddler Zone was removed, and received a Game Package. [22] In December 2017, the back wall of the Toddler Zone was painted the same green as seen in the 2015 Update. One of the Cool Chuck Logo (CEC Signage) would be removed &amp; the Toddler Zone fort would be moved to the back wall during this. [23] In March 2018, the CRT would be replaced with a flat screen[24]. In September 2018, the Cool Chuck shorts would be replaced with the Rockstar Jeans[25]. After [Cincinnati, OH (8801 Colerain Ave)] closed Sharonville would receive an unused roll of carpet, Train Ride Statue, Tik Tak Chuck Statue, One of the [CEC Warhol - Quad (CEC Décor)] posters, 'Good Behavior Guideline' sign, and The menus were sent to Sharonville[26]. 
﻿
On October 8, 2019, Sharonville started its 2.0 remodel this would involve removing all pre-existing artwork, removing 2-Stage, removing pre-existing carpet, removing tiles, removing old fixtures installing new artwork, painting walls white, black, and some grey stripes, installing new booths, chairs, and tables, Installation of Dance Floor and Video Ring, and complete revamp of the exterior. The Video Ring would be installed on October 14, 2019, and the Dance Floor would be installed on October 30, 2019. The 2-Stage would be removed that night. The Head and Shoulders of Chuck E. Cheese, Helen, Munch, Jasper, and Pasqually would be sent to [Florence, KY (7635 Mall Rd)] in November 2019 for parts. November 30, 2019, would mark another new game package for Sharonville. One of the new rides was Chuck E. Cheese's Color Photo Ride (Avenger, 2019), which was a manufacturing error leading to brand new Avenger Chuck statues being installed in 2019. When replacing the bathroom doors, one of the doors was saved and reused for doors for the control room. The Grand Re-Opening would take place on December 12, 2019. [27]
﻿
### 2020's
In January 2020, the Chuck E. Cheese 2.0 Logo art piece was installed above the counter. Photos of the exterior pre and post 2.0 were installed on the control room doors. In February 2020, the Train Ride Statue from [Cincinnati, OH (8801 Colerain Ave)] was put on display on the Prize Counter. Then, in late 2020, the Tik Tak Chuck statue replaced the Train Ride Statue. [28] The statue would be removed sometime in 2022. [29]
﻿
On August 12, 2024, Sharonville would begin its 'Entertainment Upgrade' throughout the week. This would involve installing [Video Wall], upgrading the Dance Floor to the 2021 Model, replacing the old 'Character Portrait' posters with new posters to fit the new size limitations, and new games. On August 27, 2024, Sharonville installed its Trampoline Zone and the Trampoline Zone Chuck E. Cheese and Mr. Munch posters. [30]
﻿
## Videos
﻿
| Link                                                   | Description                                                 | Footage Date          |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| [YouTube](https://youtu.be/7ZC3teXTaxw)                | Shows the stage playing Birthday 2009                       | 2009                  |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7UI9Qe38vI) | Shows the stage in 2013, playing April 2013 Segment 6       | April 16, 2013        |
| [YouTube](https://youtu.be/WwbqtFRVxR4)                | Shows the stage in 2016 playing 'In The Future'             | March 30, 2016        |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xzi9ZbuKo-0) | Shows the stage in 2017 playing 'Chuck E.'s Place'          | May 13, 2017          |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KEQlkbmODjk) | Store Tour showcasing the store less than a year before 2.0 | August 11, 2018       |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgyiSoNSVWQ) | Shows the stage in 2019 playing 'Gamin' Time'               | May 4, 2019           |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRjHjw41hfE) | Documentation of the store during the remodel               | October-December 2019 |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGzY4lbWz9M) | Footage of the grand re-opening, store tour, and live show. | December 12, 2019     |

