+++
title = "CEC1988"
draft = false
tags = ["User"]
date = "09/03/2024"

[Article]
startDate = ""
endDate = ""
contributors = ["CEC1988"]
gallery = []
+++
Hiya, I'm CEC1988, I enjoy many things, CEC Being one of them, That was my first interest, I have a passion for CEC since 2013, The first location I visited Was [Garden Grove, CA]({{< ref "wiki/Garden Grove, CA (13101 Harbor Blvd).md" >}}) way back in April 2013(I missed the CECP Logo in 2011 :( lol can't blame myself ) I'm 13 Irl, My Most Visited Location is [Chino, CA]({{< ref "wiki/Chino, CA (5250 Philadelphia St).md" >}}) Which I've visited since 2014 when I moved, Hence why I have 1988 in my Profile name. Chino is really underrated, it housed the first Chuck E.'s House (Rocker Stage) in California, and was A Showbiz Pizza! I always wanted to see a 3-Stage (for some reason I thought [Diamond Bar, CA]({{< ref "wiki/Diamond Bar, CA (1900 S Brea Canyon Rd).md" >}}) Housed one lol). I want to own a Cyberamic Chuck. E. one day, Maybe when a location remodels, I know Cyberstar Chuck Reserved [La Mesa]({{< ref "wiki/La Mesa, CA (5500 Grossmont Center Dr).md" >}}) So that only leaves me Huntington Beach! Hope i'm not late to the game!

Some things about me:

# My favorite Type of Animatronic are Cyberamics
# Favorite Stage is the Chuck E.'s House (Rocker Stage)
# Favorite Remodel is the [SPT 1992 Remodel Program]({{< ref "wiki/SPT 1992 Remodel Program.md" >}})
# Favorite CEC Logo is the 'Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza' - Letters / Logo (SPT Exterior Signage) (Chuck. E. Cheese's Pizza 89' Logo)
# Favorite Chuck. E. Voice Actor is Scott Wilson
# Favorite Helen Voice Actress is Karisa McKinney
# Favorite Munch VA is Scott Wilson
# Favorite Jasper VA is Bob West
# Favorite Pasqually VA is Bob West/Earl Fisher
# Least Favorite Remodel is the [CEC 2018 2.0 Remodel Program]({{< ref "wiki/CEC 2018 20 Remodel Program.md" >}})
# Favorite Locations are Chino, Huntington Beach, La Mesa, and Northridge, CA
I edit with what I can, I know Chino a lot because I have friends which have pictures of Chino when they were Young, That's why i could confirm that they had the Chuck E Cheese Pizza Logo like La Mesa's until 1996, Bu- Hmm I should change something..

So recently I got the Wink From [Diamond Bar]({{< ref "wiki/Diamond Bar, CA (1900 S Brea Canyon Rd).md" >}}), Someone was selling a Wink For Dirt Cheap at a garage Sale, they said they didn't want it anymore and that they got it near a CEC in Diamond Bar, so I bought it! I wont be posting pictures of the Wink Right now. I need to restore him! :) 

Have a Chuck. E. Day!!!