***Montgomery, AL (2940 E South Blvd)*** originally opened up on September 30, 1982, as a Showbiz Pizza Place {{< cite 1 >}} and closed its doors in August 2013. {{< cite 2 >}} relocating to {{< wiki-link "Montgomery, AL (1116 Eastdale Mall)" >}}.

## History
### 1980s
The Montgomery, AL Showbiz Pizza Place opened up on September 30, 1982, as the 5th ShowBiz Pizza in Alabama. The store featured The Rock-afire Explosion {{< wiki-link "Classic Stage" >}}, New Games, Oven-Fresh Pizza, Sandwiches, Salad Bar, and more. In the late 1980s, the Rock Afire Explosion would receive the Showbiz Pizza Campground.

### 1990s
In Summer 1991 Montgomery, AL would re-brand as Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza receiving {{< wiki-link "Concept Unification Stage" >}}.{{< cite 3 >}} In 1992 Montgomery, AL would receive the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1980's Remodel Program" >}} along with Platinum Award posters, Wooden signage, and Confetti portraits from the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}}{{< cite 6 >}}. In the mid 1996 Montgomery, AL would recieve the Cheerleader Helen outfit designed by Brian Hagan as for all {{< wiki-link "Concept Unification Stage" >}} locations in the district. Around this time the store changed Jasper's base to a trash can.{{< cite 9 >}} In 1996 the store would gain{{< wiki-link "Phase 1 (1994)" >}}.{{< cite 4 >}} Between 1997 and 1998 the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1980's Remodel Program" >}} awnings would be removed from above the counter. The store also got the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}} around this time.{{< cite 7 >}}{{< cite 8 >}} Later the store would receive {{< wiki-link "Phase 2 (1997)" >}} between 1997 and 1999.

### 2000s
Montgomery, AL would receive {{< wiki-link "Phase 3 (2000)" >}} between 2000 and 2003. In the early 2000s the store would replace all of its latex masks with plastic masks, Munch Jr would be removed around this time also, The Chuck E. Cheese Tuxedo was replaced between 2002 and 2008. In mid-to-late 2011 Pizzacam was removed from the  {{< wiki-link "Concept Unification Stage" >}}. {{< cite 10 >}} 

### 2010s
On March 18, 2013 it was announced that the Chuck E. Cheese's in Montgomery Alabama was moving into Eastdale Mall 'Michelle Chism, Director of Corp. Communications for Chuck E. Cheese's parent company, CEC Entertainment, says possession of the mall space will happen in May and the new store should be open by late summer or early fall of 2013'. It was stated that the current location would stay operational until the new Eastdale Mall location opened. All employees of the current location would transfer over.{{< cite 5 >}} in Early August 2013 the Montgomery, AL Chuck E. Cheese would close and would re-locate to {{< wiki-link "Montgomery, AL (1116 Eastdale Mall)" >}} on August 13, 2013.{{< cite 2 >}}. In 2016 'Bombay Lounge' would open up in the former Chuck E. Cheese's the night club would close in 2021 {{< cite 11 >}}. Soon after closing the façade would be re-repainted white. {{< cite 12 >}} 
