***Portage, MI (6175 S Westnedge Ave) #327*** originally opened up on September 26, 2000, as a Chuck E. Cheese's {{< cite 1 >}} and would close on September 7, 2025, as a Chuck E. Cheese. {{< cite 2 >}}

## History
### 2000's
The Portage, MI, Chuck E. Cheese's opened September 26, 2000, as part of "an ongoing expansion by CEC Entertainment...The Portage operation is expected to be one of 20 to 25 new locations added this year, according to CEC spokeswoman Brenda Holloway". It also one of 10 locations CEC Entertainment acquired from Discovery Zone to become a Chuck E. Cheese resturant'{{< cite 3 >}}. The store featured an {{< wiki-link "Studio C Alpha" >}}, New Games, Decor from the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}}, and the newest features from {{< wiki-link "Phase 3 (2000)" >}}. On February 11, 2002, at 11:30 a.m., the Chuck E. Cheese would be used as part of Child safety demonstrations. {{< cite 4 >}} On February 1, 2007, "Family Fun Day; Crazy Hat Day; Family Night at Chuck E. Cheese" as a part of Catholic Schools Week in Portage, MI{{< cite 5 >}}.Between 2008 to 2009 the Chuck E. Cheese animatronic would obtain the Avenger shirt and shorts. Between 2009 to 2011, the location would replace its dim lighting with fluorescent lighting{{< cite 6 >}}{{< cite 7 >}}. 

### 2010's
Between 2014 to 2015, this location would receive minor renovations, which involved repainting select walls purple and removing {{< wiki-link "'Where A Kid Can Be A Kid.' Entrance Sign (SPT Signage)" >}}, Planters, {{< wiki-link "Munch (1999 Portrait)" >}},{{< wiki-link "Helen (1999 Portrait)" >}},{{< wiki-link "Jasper (1999 Portrait)" >}}, and {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. (1999 Portrait)" >}} in the entrance hallway. They would be replaced with Left Checkers, Large "C" Cap Thumb Chuck, and Right Checkers.{{< cite 8 >}}{{< cite 9 >}} Also  between 2014 to 2015 They also replaced the Blue Screen Camera with the {{< wiki-link "Ticket Blaster" >}}{{< cite 18 >}}{{< cite 19 >}}. Between 2017 and 2018 the {{< wiki-link "Interactive Console" >}} was removed being replaced with the "CEC" panel{{< cite 16 >}}{{< cite 17 >}}. Starting in July 2018, this location would begin its {{< wiki-link "CEC 2.0 Remodel Program" >}}{{< cite 10 >}}. The {{< wiki-link "Studio C Alpha" >}} would be removed by mid-August 2018 for a 2017 model {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Live Stage (Dance Floor)" >}}{{< cite 11 >}}. On October 18, 2018, the location would celebrate its Grand Re-Opening with Chuck E. Cheese, Helen Henny, and Mr. Munch{{< cite 12 >}}.

### 2020's
March 2020 would mark the store's temporary closing due to COVID-19. On October 9, 2020, the store would re-open for "Games & Dine-In"{{< cite 13 >}}. In August 2023, the location would undergo an "Entertainment Upgrade". This would involve receiving the 2019 model {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Live Stage (Dance Floor)" >}}, {{< wiki-link "Video Wall" >}}, New Character Portraits, and the removal of the "WHERE A KID CAN BE A K D" Poster from the entrance hallway. In 2024, the store would receive the Chuck E. Cheese Trampoline Zone and Trampoline Zone artwork of Bella B., Chuck E. Cheese, and Mr. Munch{{< cite 14 >}}.. In 2025, it was announced that "...on June 10 paid $10.35 million for a more than 71,000-square foot shopping center in Portage, property records show. The selling price was nearly $3 million more than the property’s listing price four years ago… City of Portage spokesperson Mary Beth Block confirmed that while Kroger purchased the property at 6175 S. Westnedge Ave., the company has yet to submit any plans for the shopping center"{{< cite 15 >}}. The Chuck E. Cheese would end up closing on September 7, 2025, with redevelopment plans currently unclear for the property{{< cite 2 >}}. 

## Videos
﻿
| Link                                                   | Description                                                 | Footage Date          |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncILjQLpYC4) | 2009 Tour of the location                                   | January 2009          |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BM0mrQZ1AbM) | 2024 Tour of the location                                   | Late 2024             | 
