***Kansas City, MO (8809 State Line Rd)*** originally opened June 20, 2023 as a Peter Piper Pizzeria{{< cite 1 >}} and closed on June 30th, 2024; it reopened as a Chuck E. Cheese's on August 28th, 2024, until closing again on June 22nd, 2025; it finally launched as a unique {{< wiki-link "Chuck's Arcade" >}} on June 28th, 2025, and closed on January 6, 2026.{{< cite 2 >}}. 

## History
### Peter Piper Pizzeria
Plans for the Peter Piper Pizza were first discussed on December 20, 2022 in an article discussing the 'new' Peter Piper Express. In the article 'Peter Piper Pizza Builds Growth-Ready Portfolio' CEO David McKillips stated 'In addition to Kansas City, Peter Piper Pizza explored more than two dozen other markets to place its new fast-casual operation. However, the Midwest city proved victorious due to its cost of entry, growth trajectory, and sports following' and 'his brand is going to travel out of there and you get a lot of tastes from different cities around the country that are landing in Kansas City. We think it’s a great place. Not too far out of Kansas City is the birthplace of the pan pizza. So what a great place for us to come in and measure ourselves'{{< cite 3 >}}. The Peter Piper Pizza would debut first in Kansas City (Olathe) on March 9, 2023 with the second of the 'Casual Pizzeria Concept' to open 'summer 2023 on Ward Parkway in Kansas City proper'{{< cite 4 >}}. On June 8, 2023 Peter Piper Pizza would release an article 'Peter Piper Pizzeria Continues Expansion in Kansas City With Grand Opening June 22'. Discussing the design and work into creating Peter Piper Pizzeria. As stated by CEO David McKillips 'the fast casual restaurant will serve made-from-scratch, hand-tossed pizzas and pan pizzas, plus wings, salads and desserts, as well as wine and craft beer. Instagrammable spots include the hand-painted wall mural by local artist Chase Hunter and trendy foodie favorites include Pepperoni Rolls and the Butcher’s Block Pizza. The 4,650 square-foot space is a larger format with 10 arcade games, a dozen TVs streaming live sports, and the innovative Roto-Flex® oven for the perfect stone-baked pizzas. The “eatertainment” fast casual chain offers fun for the entire family with classic games like Pac-Man that parents and kids may play together. A grand opening event will be held on Thursday, June 22, at 10:30 a.m., and will include a ribbon-cutting with local dignitaries, food samplings, free game play in the game room and a $75 meal credit to the first 75 guests'{{< cite 5 >}}. On June 30, 2024 after 374 days the Peter Piper Pizzeria concept would be deemed as a failure in the Kansas City market with both Kansas City locations closing their doors for the last time.{{< cite 6 >}}. 
### Chuck E. Cheese
Plans for the {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Cheese" >}} to replace the former Peter Piper Pizzeria were announced on July 2, 2024 in an article titled 'Pizza place closes its last Kansas City area location. Chuck E. Cheese is moving in' The CEC spokesperson stated 'It will feature a curated menu, its iconic video games, pizza and birthday parties, and we look forward to sharing more details as we get closer to opening in the fall of 2024'{{< cite 6 >}}. The Chuck E. Cheese would have a soft-opening on August 28, 2024{{< cite 7 >}} and an official grand opening celebration on August 29, 2024{{< cite 8 >}}. Once the location opened to the public many aspects from the Peter Piper Pizzeria would remain including the Roto-Flex® oven. The only aspects removed from the store was anything inside of the store that directly mentioned or referenced Peter Piper Pizza. Included painting over the mural down by Chase Hunter, replacing it with the grey stripes seen at Chuck E. Cheese, removing the left {{< wiki-link "Video Wall" >}} for the Prize Counter, removing the bar counter, all brick walls would be repainted white with grey stripes, black carpet would be installed where the bar counter once was, The store would feature various aspects of Chuck E. Cheese such as the {{< wiki-link "Ticket Blaster" >}}, {{< wiki-link "Trampoline Zone" >}}, the Prize Counter, the Chuck E. Cheese and Helen Henny 2.0 posters, 'Pasqually's Kitchen' sign, Restrooms sign, Trampoline Zone art of Bella B., Mr. Munch and Chuck E. Cheese, 'Order Pick-Up', Good Behavior Guideline, No Firearms allowed, and Play Pass{{< cite 9 >}}. On June 22, 2025, after 303 days, the Chuck E. Cheese in Kansas City (State Line) would begin its re-brand to be turned into Chuck's Arcade.
### Chuck's Arcade and Pizzeria
Chuck's Arcade replacing the Chuck E. Cheese Kansas City (State Line) was first shown on June 24, 2025 by Discord user 'Saturn'. The re-brand would be finished on June 28, 2025 and currently is the only location to feature the 'and Pizzeria' slogan and food at the location{{< cite 10 >}}. Once the location relaunched many aspects from Chuck E. Cheese were removed, but what was left from Peter Piper Pizzeria was left, including the Roto-Flex® oven. This included The Chuck E. Cheese and Helen Henny 2.0 posters,  Trampoline Zone art of Bella B., Mr. Munch and Chuck E. Cheese, Ticket Blaster, Trampoline Zone, and the Kiddie Rides. The wood paneling above the kitchen was replaced with a 'Chuck's Arcade' wrap design, all brick walls in the resturant would be painted black, the brick wall near the entrance had 28 retro decor installed from SPT Distribution, The Chuck's Arcade symbol would be added next to the drink station, brick wall near the 'employees only' door had three pieces of decor installed from SPT Distribution, and four pieces of decor were installed in the restroom hallway. A 'Chuck E.'s Gift Shop' sign would be installed over the prize counter, with a {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}} awning installed next to it, the store would play the standard showtape on the {{< wiki-link "Video Wall" >}} before playing the {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Cheese Throwback Thursday Show" >}} {{< cite 11 >}}. In July 2025 the Pizza Time Theatre Stained Glass would be installed next to the video wall, and the Taxidermy Chuck E. Cheese Cyberamic would be installed near the entrance to the store in front of the ordering counter{{< cite 11 >}} On July 25, 2025 the {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Cheese Throwback Show" >}} would start playing featuring exclusive segments not seen in the Throwback Thursday Show. In August 2025 the Prize Counter would be replaced with a 'Prize Hub' machine{{< cite 12 >}}{{< cite 13 >}}. On January 6, 2026 after 192 days the Chuck's Arcade and Pizzeria would close its doors for the final time{{< cite 2 >}}. 
