***Cincinnati, OH (4394 Eastgate Square Dr), Store #211/102*** is a *Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza* that opened June 17, 1990 with a {{< wiki-link "Chuck E.'s House" >}} {{< cite 1 >}} and is currently a Chuck E. Cheese with a {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Live Stage (Dance Floor)" >}}.{{< cite 2 >}}

## History
### 1990's
Eastgate opened on June 17, 1990. It was a franchise store owned by 'Bernstein Restaurant Group', which also owned {{< wiki-link "Florence, KY (7635 Mall Rd)" >}}. The store opened with the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1980's Remodel Program" >}} and {{< wiki-link "Chuck E.'s House" >}}{{< cite 3 >}}. Between 1995 and 1998, Eastgate would receive the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1990's Remodel Program" >}}. the store would also recieve {{< wiki-link "Phase 1 (1994)" >}}. {{< cite 4 >}}

### 2000's
In 2002 or 2003, Helen would be replaced with {{< wiki-link "Florence, KY (7635 Mall Rd)" >}} original Helen (minus the head mechanism). Eastgate, OH, would be the final location to feature the PTT Helen design on the animatronic {{< cite 5 >}}. In Fall 2005, the store would receive {{< wiki-link "CEC 2000's Remodel Program" >}}. During the remodel, the {{< wiki-link "Chuck E.'s House" >}} would be replaced with the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Cappa" >}}. With it still being a franchise, certain aspects would be retained from its {{< wiki-link "SPT 1980's Remodel Program" >}}, such as the wood paneling seen near the bathrooms and the wood paneling near Kid Check {{< cite 6 >}}. They'd also keep Mount Chuckmore during the remodel.{{< cite 7 >}} On August 25, 2008, the 'Bernstein Restaurant Group' sold its two stores of 4394 Eastgate Square Dr and {{< wiki-link "Florence, KY (7635 Mall Rd)" >}} to CEC Entertainment. The store number would change from #211 to #102 once CEC Entertainment purchased the store. {{< cite 8 >}}

### 2010's
In 2012, the location would replace its {{< wiki-link "Studio C Cappa" >}} with the 2012 {{< wiki-link "Studio C Beta" >}}. Then, in 2014, the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Beta" >}} would have the box TVs replaced with flat screens, removing all lighting effects above them with the 'CEC' sign added above the TV. The lighting below the TVs was modified to stay on permanently. The Skytubes were removed in Spring 2016. Later in 2016, the store would receive {{< wiki-link "Chuck E.'s Play Pass" >}}. In 2017, the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Beta" >}} curtains would be removed. Later that year, the stage would add LEDs to the stage with a white LED being installed on the valance, red LED on the 'CEC' sign, and adding red, green, and blue LEDs under the TV. They would also shorten the TV section of the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Beta" >}} to be against the wall, also removing the mirror effect{{< cite 13 >}}. In 2018, the Chuck E. Cheese animatronic would receive the rockstar jeans{{< cite 9 >}}. In 2019, due to the closure of {{< wiki-link "Cincinnati, OH (8801 Colerain Ave)" >}}, several posters were sent to Eastgate. The posters gained were {{< wiki-link "'Grand Marshal of Games' (CEC Décor)" >}}, {{< wiki-link "'Ambassador of Fun' (CEC Décor)" >}}, and {{< wiki-link "Red CEC Tickets (CEC Décor)" >}}, along with several showroom chairs, the Kid Check stand, and Parts of arcade games such as 'Simpson Soccer' and 'Pop It for Gold'. During this update, two posters were trashed those being 'Titan of Token', which was replaced with 'Ambassador of Fun', and 'Ice Hockey' which was replaced with 'King of Cool'. Several posters were also moved, such as Big Token being moved to the entrance hallway from where 'Grand Marshal of Games' is now, the Small Token above the menus was moved to the game room in front of the prize counter, and the two red tickets were installed above 'Jumpin Fantasy' and 'Haunted Mansion'.{{< cite 10 >}}{{< cite 7 >}}

### 2020's
In late 2023 the LEDs on the {{< wiki-link "Studio C Beta" >}} under the TV were replaced changing them out for red, white, green LED strips.{{< cite 14 >}}  
On the night of April 7, 2024, Eastgate would begin its {{< wiki-link "CEC 2.0 Remodel Program" >}}. The wood paneling would be retained from the {{< wiki-link "SPT 1980's Remodel Program" >}}. The stage would be replaced with the 2021 {{< wiki-link "Chuck E. Live Stage (Dance Floor)" >}} and {{< wiki-link "Video Wall" >}}.{{< cite 11 >}} Eastgate would receive a new game package on April 23rd, with the store having its grand re-opening on May 29th, 2024. Later that year, on August 26, 2024, Eastgate would receive the Trampoline Zone, Chuck E. Cheese and Mr. Munch Trampoline Zone posters.{{< cite 12 >}} On October 28, 2025, Eastgate would recieve the Superhero Playground. It would be installed next to the Trampoline Zone.{{< cite 15 >}} 
