The ***Unicorn Churros*** are a [Chuck E. Cheese's] menu item that were introduced on April 8th, 2019.<sup>(1)(2)(3)</sup>
The item currently consists of five churros dusted with three different flavors of sugar: cotton candy (pink), sour apple (green), and blue raspberry. Their packaging fittingly bears the likeness of [Ronnie the Unicorn].

## History

The Unicorn Churros were first announced on March 28th, 2019, ahead of their debut on April 8th. This was one day ahead of National Unicorn Day on April 9th - on that day, customers who bought 30 minutes of "all you can play" time would receive an order of churros for free.[2] In addition, the company launched a social media campaign to promote the new item, offering prizes to people who posted pictures of themselves with their hair in a unicorn horn (alongside the hashtag "#UnicornItChallenge").[3] Comments from Chuck E. Cheese's officials (including then-CEO Tom Leverton) indicated that the item was in part meant to cash in on the popularity of unicorns at the time.<sup>(4)(5)</sup>
While the churros were originally only available for a limited time (specifically until June 6th),<sup>(2)(3)</sup> they instead became a permanent item. Later communication from the company often treated them as a seasonal item, sometimes grouping them with the [Rainbow Lollipops (CEC Menu Item)], the [Unicorn Cupcake (CEC Menu Item)], the [Unicorn Cotton Candy (CEC Menu Item)], and/or the [Rainbow Ice Dippin' Dots (CEC Menu Item)] (all of which were only offered in the spring).<sup>(6)(7)(8)</sup> However, Wayback Machine archives of Chuck E. Cheese's menu show that the churros consistently remained on the menu year-round.
In April 2020, the Unicorn Churros were offered for $3 as part of a special "$5 or less" carry-out menu.<sup>(9)(10)</sup> This would end between June 20th[11] and the 25th.[12]
The item would receive two significant changes no later than June 10, 2021: it would come with five churros instead of four, and its price would increase from $3.99 to $4.99.[13]
