***Chuck E. And Friends!*** is an upcoming Chuck E. Cheese TV series created by CEC Entertainment, HappyNest, and Pixel Zoo Animation Studios, set for its pilot premiere in November of 2025.

## History
The TV show's plans would first leak on October 26th, 2024, after the [Chuck E. And Friends! Audition Sheets] and [Chuck E. And Friends! Story Bible] would be put online, presumably by an auditioner for a voice role. The bible would explain the entire show's premise, the plans for the Holiday Special set in Winter 2025, episode/specials ideas, and more. The audition sheets would also show direct parts of the Holiday Special script. The only credits listed would be of producers and writers, with it unclear who may pick up voice roles- or who would be animating the pilot. The limited selection of audition sheets also made early speculation assume that the current voice cast would be reprising roles outside of Pasqually and Bella. CEC Entertainment would never comment on the leak, and news outlets never picked up the story. [1][2]

On June 17th, 2025, the first press release for the show would feature on Variety. There the voice cast and additional producers would be revealed, mainly with Nathan Kress voicing Chuck E. Cheese. Pixel Zoo would also be confirmed as the animation studio on the project. [3] On July 29th, 2025, it would be spotted that several Amazon clothing listings featuring art from the pitch bible, alongside new art, were available for purchase. 

On October 3rd, 2025, a YouTube video titled "NEW. Pumpkins in My Pockets | Halloween Music Video | Chuck E. Cheese Kids Songs & Cartoons" would release showing an animated segment from the TV show production team. The video would shortly be taken down and re-uploaded for unknown reasons.[5] The video's outro would title the segment "Chuck E. Cheese Partymobile Sing-Along".[6] Later on in the day an email would be sent out advertising the short, explaining "In the very first digital short, the gang is warming up on the journey with a Chuck E. classic: "Pumpkins in My Pockets." Get ready for Halloween fun, sing-alongs, and maybe even a glimpse of something new about your favorite crew.", confirming that more exclusive digital shorts would be revealed up to the release of the pilot. 

In mid-October, David McKillips would confirm that the Holiday Special would be releasing 'across streaming channels', alongside confirming more of who at CEC Entertainment was involved in the partnership and production.[8] On October 17th, the "NEW! The EASY Dance... Turned IMPOSSIBLE?! | Chuck E. Cheese Music & Dance Cartoon Videos for Kids" short would release.[9] October 26th would have a 12 second short play featuring a potential song from the Holiday Special, alongside confirming the release date as November 27th.[10]

## Releases

| Title                                                     | Type    | Release             | Platforms                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| [Pumpkins in My Pockets]                | Short   | October 3rd, 2025   | [YouTube](https://youtu.be/zLqVmQcD3zQ)    |
| [The EASY Dance... Turned IMPOSSIBLE?!] | Short   | October 17th, 2025  | [YouTube](https://youtu.be/7m9F-lPSqjY)    |
| [Chuck E. Cheese Holiday Special]       | Special | November 27th, 2025 | Youtube, Amazon Prime                      |